Speech, enlightenment mind always represent enlightenment forms, enlightenment song, enlightenment
speech, space and mind.
That is what it is. So that means when we practice this life as a beginning, we always try to
visit joy and appreciation with bodhichitta, having those activated, signalized stages, then trying
to
really see that every environment is enlightened status. All is pure in this status. This again,
everything is enlightened status. It's not just a way of making up according to the teaching of the
bodhichaktamuni or in another. All is enlightened. Five elements are enlightened as five dainabudas
,
all male buddhas. And five elements are enlightened as female buddhas. And every limbs and every
activity is the emanation of the five male and the five female buddhas. Everything is enlightened.
So
nothing is not enlightened. And why we don't see that now? Because of our dualities. Because our
ego
cleanings, because of our grasp of cleaning, completely mixed up, mixed up. That is what
indigene buddhas and this ego cleaning, duality, this cleaning, all this indigene buddhas are known
as obscurations. Obscuration is not done from outside. Obscuration is one's own creations. What we
created, we bled out by that. It's like cocoons. The threat of the cocoon, not just came from
outside,
wrapped up. Cocoon themselves trapped. Similarly is one's own things we trapped. This trapion is
not
going on and on. Not just happened now, but according to the teaching, it started from the
beginning. And how long is it going to last? It's going to last forever unless we reverse it. Our
practicing, our meditation, our meditation, all that we are releasing. We are at the moment that
cocoons that thread. Threadness. So then what will come? Then it will come the true nature, the
beauty
of what we're talking, enlightenment what we're talking. That will come according to the teaching.
So therefore, in the beginning, the Buddha's teaching, in the beginning, the Buddha's teaching,
the Buddha kind of told, gradually ushered us to these directions. And Mahayana, the Buddha,
told about all kinds of unbelievable things. And Mahayana then told more forcefully and now,
at the school, who means, pull of the school, who means teaching, is Mahayana teaching. We do
westerns. So immediately we activated that old and natural without waiting so many years or the
eons. Immediately we will bring up that. And when we bring this realization, as everything is
enlightened, according to the sutra of teaching, the other sutra of teaching, it will take three
countless eons. They call it the teaching. Even that is best. Shortest. It takes long time. But
in the very end the teaching, through the sutra of means, and our courage and commitment and our
devotion and joyful effort, we immediately connect to the nature. The true beauty. Immediately. And
then beat that. So immediately, even though maybe we had a short glimpse of that realization,
but we are connecting that. Due to the habit of everything, it goes away. But we are connecting
that. You are getting directed to the enlightened state. So therefore, seeing that everything has
enlightened state, then we take reference. So, three eons. And that is why, you all know,
the three eons, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, that is. And the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha is, Buddha is the
great teacher by the Buddha Chakra Mani. And if Dharma is the teaching, such as then, all the
teachings, the Naira teachings, all the basic Buddhist school teachings, the Maha, Sotramayana
teaching, Vaidyana Mahayana teaching, all those are known as dharmas. Then generally Dharma has
two dharmas, known as scriptural Dharma, realization dharmas. And those are all what I listed those
in
the scriptural Dharma. Scriptural Dharma, what it tells them, it tells moralities, it tells
the concentrations, it tells the verse dharmas. When we activated that, then in your heart, mind,
our heart and mind, that is known as realization dharmas. So we build close connection to the
scriptural Dharma, as well as the meaning of that scripture. Scriptural Dharma, again I say, the
meaning of that scripture, all of the Buddha's teaching can be summarized in these three extra
only teachings on the moralities, all the disciplines, and extra only teachings on the
concentrations, extra only teachings on the verse dharmas. And this discipline teaching is
mainly kind of highlight of our conduct, our conduct, the way we should act. And then that
when we have a good conduct, easily we can also control, we can balance our mind, easily counts as
Samadhi concentrations, comes. When we both are guided by the Vastas, the Vastas, morality or the
conduct of the discipline as well as the concentration, both are guided by the Vastas. Then all
comes
perfectly, beautifully. Conduct of the discipline is beautiful, and the concentration is beautiful,
that we meditate and all that. All the Dukki practices, all those beautiful, and the same
time, glowing discovery of the innermost tools, that understand exactly where things are. Nothing
higher,
nothing lower, you see things. That is done. And the Sangha is spiritual, they have to practice and
follow with that. And the Sangha is also known as a source of inspirations, who inspire us, who
help us, to teach us to learn. We do the Sangha members, or we do it generally in Buddhism state,
we do the sentient beings, how we can practice of the six parabas, how we can practice both each
other, if there is no sentient beings. So for that reason, many great masters and teachings always
say,
to get enlightenment or to become ourselves a Buddha, the sentient beings, Buddhists are equally
kindness. Buddha gives the path and ensures the techniques and exactly, and sentient beings gives
training and give the lesson. Lesson, combination, we develop and discover our energies. And
therefore,
even we didn't communicate all sentient beings, but Sangha members are so good, so special. And all
those Sangha members want to hold the teachings. Buddha came 3,600 years ago, and teaching is
still there. Who maintained, who kept up that? That was a continuous lineage, as exact as Buddha
told. These Sangha members, their courage, their commitment, their joy and their devotees, upheld
that teaching and transferred that one after that. Now, there, Sanghas are so important, they are
known
as older of the teachings. So for that reason, I prefer to pronounce the connection to all of this,
which is known as in Buddhism, three jubals. This is, of course, translated as a jubal,
but in Tibet, it is translated as a kon-chul song. Kon-chul, kon-chul, kon-chul, kon-chul. Kon
means very rare. So, kom is
supreme. This is not just a regular jubal. Regular jubal, jubals are, if you are very rich, you can
buy.
This jubal is a supreme, rare jubal. Jubal is, that's what in Tibet is used, I mean, at ancient
time,
such as great, under the bad news, bad news of the great king, Tristan Devli, Gurga Maasambhava,
Chandaraki, the woman mother, and those old, great, awesome members. And that's really so beautiful
,
accurate vocabulary is done with terminologies. And this is one of them, again. I mean, these old
things, they carry the perfect meaning of the teaching. They not just only make up their things,
because they do all that, but they also combine all the teachings in different areas. I mean,
both the teachings and as well the teachings of all those great masters, the Nalajunas, Asanghas,
Maitreya, that kind of, all that, and put it back into a couple of words. Far from the Dharma
terminology, to be the one of the richest Dharma terminology in this time. Because of their
kindness,
their compassion, and their versus. And even this rena, or the jubal, not just put as jubal,
put on yourself. To this on yourself, I take refuge. And how long? Until I become the brotherhood,
until I discover this absolute nature of my own beings, or after the enlightenment of the
body, sweet mind, everything in that, I take that refuge. So that is brilliant. Of course,
you all know. You all know, so I don't have to talk so many things. I just said,
no, I don't. This is the end of the refuge, the refuge. From now, until I become the enlightenment,
no matter whatever situation, circumstance, changing externally, my Buddha Dharma will be
always in my heart, and I will continue to explore, and the source of my aspirations,
and guidance, and a proof of happiness. And so that's, I feel close, connected to them.
And so that's the step in love. And then, next one, is the rut bodhicata. It's just one line,
but it's very powerful. It tells the exilimation of the bodhicata. Bodhicata is the generally
intention, our thought, again. But this time, in this bodhicata, it's not intention of the ego
clean, not intention of the self-important, not intention of the self-centered mind. Instead,
self-important, putting this intention, all the sentient beings, every living beings are important,
more important than my self-evident. And we can think that way. They're all important.
And now, they're all there. So therefore, what is the principle called, root of the compa...
or this bodhicata? Root of the essence of bodhicata is compassion. And loving kindness.
Loving kindness is compassion. This love and compassion is not just a lot like love and
compassion. It is love and compassion to all living beings. Those we know, those we don't know,
those who are here, those who are gone from sight, according to the Buddha's teaching,
they're not disabled. They are, in some way, in the six realms, somewhere in the samsara.
Therefore, we are going to generate the situation, reaching every good thing for every living being
,
from the heart, from the good heart. This is the one called, in some times, the Dini,
unconditional compassion, unconditional love. This is not unconditional love and compassion
to local life, but all living beings. This is sincerely reaching good things.
This is also bodhicata has truth. With the beginning bodhicata, and when you're
stoned and activated, that bodhicata begins bodhicata, which is also known as
reaching bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata. Reaching bodhicata and actualizing bodhicata.
So that means why you have now developed that signaling compassion, allowing kindness for all
living beings. That is known as wishing bodhicata. That attitude, that intensity, that will talk,
that powerful will talk, is known as wishing bodhicata. And that can be a little bit kind of
how we practice that, how we do practice with that bodhicata. That is the engraver of Master
Munshi Pahe, you know, everyone say, to practice with wishing bodhicata, we did four formless
practices.
That we all know, our Buddha's heart, when we practice, it has that. May all living beings have
happiness, cause of happiness. That is loving kindness practice. May all living beings have
happiness, cause of happiness. Not just they have, just they feel the love, but we also
wish they have the continuing happiness because of the cause. If you have the perfect cause to
be happiness, then it will continue. If we don't have that cause, it will come to maybe a short
time,
but it goes big. So cause and condition completely have that happiness all the time. May all living
beings have happiness and cause of happiness. That is formless compassion of the wishing bodhicata.
The second is, then what? May all living beings have that, free from the suffering. May all
living beings are free from the sufferings and cause of sufferings. Again, resolve and cause
wishing bodh. That is great compassion. Great compassion of the wishing bodhicata. We are
activating that, activating that. Very seamlessly. Not just awake, attitude, those pop-pop or
kind of wishing bodhicata, but you are really activating that. And the next one is, is great
joy or rejoices. That and about. Again, may all living beings have the great happiness which is
free from the sufferings. Sufferings. Free from sufferings. See, that's the great rejoice.
Great happiness. As we have the great love and completion, and they have happiness and have good
times, then you will rejoice. Not just a few people, but you have all the living beings.
The next one is a great balance, equanimity of the, again, wishing bodhi. May all living,
we have the great equanimity realization, free from the attachment to the close ones,
reject to the others. As we jump. I'm hearing this, may all living beings, that is kind of
extreme, but that understanding is all that happens. And also in some other teaching, also we can
say what, may all mother-sentence beings always have happiness, the cause of happiness. May all
mother-sentence beings always free from the sufferings, cause of sufferings. May all mother-sent
ence
beings have the great joy, joy that which is free from sufferings. May all mother-sentence beings
always have the great equanimity realization, free from the attachment to the close ones,
reject to the others. When you join that, if you reflect that meaning, meaning that is known as
wishing bodhi. And also when you join and reflect that meaning, how beautiful is, how really
beautiful,
how special. There's no ego cleanings and some important energy in that, that place, that time.
For that reason, in the teaching always, this is one of the great healing practices too,
purification practices, healing practices, in the same time. Accumulating the merit, the good
energies,
merit of the accumulated merit, wisdom merit, all that comes, comes these practices. It's so
powerful.
Great kenji partition will be making many a time. So even just one of, alone, one of them, alone,
may all living beings, may all mother-sentence beings have the great happiness and the cause
of happiness. Just a giant reflect on that meaning and then relax that, on that. It's really,
it's self-isn't. Full practices, full practice. It's self-isn't. The essence of the mindfulness
practice. These days we will let mindfulness. They're talking about that. They see the benefit of
that
mindfulness. If you take that way and relax your mind, it will calm down our mind.
And that means it calm down all the, all the energies, running consulsions, running thoughts
and the stress force. Everything is subsided. All that goes on the same way. That is known as the
Wishing Bodita. Actualizing Bodita is, and practices, six paralana. We did this Wishing Bodita. We
did
for wellness. And six paralana. Those six paralanas, I just listed the names and then of course you
can
look to go to many other books and as well as most easy to look the reference is what's called
Google E. It's an easy way to get all that information. Google E or Zoom E. And those six
paralanas are the university practices, morality practices, and then the ancient practices and
the beautiful effort of practices, course in the practices. And then most of them practices,
those are known as six paralanas, but that all best upon these four boneless practices.
And we have that attitude, that thought, then it will shake up the samsara. Truly,
samsara is duality, samsara is ignorance, samsara is ego-cleaning. And we have that,
those we were taught. Truly, it will shake up. It will shake up or it will smash the samsara.
And samsara is this, samsara means suffering, difficulty, troubles, uncertain, unreliable,
then going on and on. That really will shake this by this, this. So for that reason, I generate the
bodhicitta, vision bodhicitta, and actualizing bodhicitta. So that is what we need about that
meaning, bodhicitta. And now, next one, so that's that point, what we need completed,
the beginning novel, that starts. And the last middle novel is then...